Roles API: Clarifies credentials access (#4726)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/concepts/role-assignment/index.md

# Role assignment

Role assignment to principals makes them administrators of your org. Principals can be users or groups of users. When a role is assigned to a group, all members of the group automatically have the privileges granted by the role.

Roles can be one of the [standard roles](#standard-role-assignment) that are provided by default. Alternatively, you can create your own custom roles by choosing from the collection of available [permissions](#permission-types).

> This page discusses the concepts of role assignment through APIs. See [Custom administrator roles](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=csh-cstm-admin-roles).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page discusses the concepts of role assignment through APIs. See [Custom administrator roles](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext-cstm-admin-roles).
```

## Standard role assignment

> ### Standard role Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Standard role types
```

The following role types are provided and supported:

| Role type                               | Label                               | Optional targets                      |
| :-------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :------------------------------------ |
| `API_ACCESS_MANAGEMENT_ADMIN`           | API Access Management administrator |                                       |
| `APP_ADMIN`                             | Application administrator           | Apps                                  |
| `GROUP_MEMBERSHIP_ADMIN`                | Group membership administrator      | [Groups](/docs/reference/api/groups/) |
| `HELP_DESK_ADMIN`                       | Help desk administrator             | [Groups](/docs/reference/api/groups/) |
| `MOBILE_ADMIN`                          | Mobile administrator                |                                       |

> | `ORG_ADMIN`                             | Organizational administrator        |                                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ORG_ADMIN`                             | Organization administrator        |                                       |
```

| `USER_ADMIN`                            | Group administrator                 | [Groups](/docs/reference/api/groups/) |

### IAM-based standard role Types
<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

Okta also supports the following IAM-based standard roles:
| Role type                                                  | Label                               | Permissions                                   |
| :--------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------- |
| `ACCESS_CERTIFICATIONS_ADMIN` <ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> | Access certifications administrator | `okta.governance.accessCertifications.manage` |
| `ACCESS_REQUESTS_ADMIN`       <ApiLifecycle access="ea" /> | Access requests administrator       | `okta.governance.accessRequests.manage`       |

You can assign IAM-based standard roles using [standard](#standard-role-assignment-steps) or [custom role](#custom-role-assignment) assignment operations. These roles are immutable and can't be updated or deleted.

### Standard Role Assignment steps

> Perform a standard role assignment in two steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform a standard role assignment:
```

Reviewer: ^ future-proofing in case the number of steps changes later

> 1. Assign a role to a user or group. At this point, the admin has the supported privileges of the role over all resources across the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Assign a role to a user or group. At this point, the admin has the supported privileges of the role over all resources across the org.
```

Reviewer: Is this true? Only super admins have access to all resources. Maybe "Assign a role to a user or group. The user now has access to the admin permissions and resources for the role."

2. (Optional) If the role supports targets, use one of the [target operations](/docs/reference/api/roles/#role-target-operations) to indicate which specific resource the admin can manage.

> The entities involved in a standard role assignment are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are all of the entities that are involved in a standard role assignment:
```

Reviewer: I forget if we translate dev.okta.com, but our translators hate incomplete stem sentences.

* Role: Identified either by type or ID returned from the [listing API](/docs/reference/api/roles/#list-roles)
* Principal: Either a group or a user

> * Resource (optional): When using [target operations](/docs/reference/api/roles/#role-target-operations), the resource can be either an App or a group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Resource (optional): When using [target operations](/docs/reference/api/roles/#role-target-operations), the resource can be an app or a group
```

## Custom role assignment

> You can build custom roles by piecing [Permissions](/docs/reference/api/roles/#permission-types) together. After a custom role is built, you can use its `id` or `label` to assign to admins. The process is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create custom roles by selecting [Permissions](/docs/reference/api/roles/#permission-types). After a custom role is created, you can use its `id` or `label` to assign it to admins:
```

> 1. Build a custom role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a custom role.
```

> 2. Build a set of resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a resource set.
```

3. Bind the admin with the role from step one that targets the resource set from step two.

An assignment of a role to an admin is called a [Binding](/docs/reference/api/roles/#binding-object), which you can identify by its unique ID. A binding represents a single unique combination of principal, resource set, and custom role. A given resource set can have multiple bindings. The resource allows for different combinations of principals and roles to grant permissions to the encompassing resource.

Therefore, when dealing with custom roles, these three entities always exist:

* Role: Identified by its `label` or `id`
* Principal: Either a group or a user - known as a member of the binding
* Resource set: Identified by its `id`

> ### Custom role Assignment for IAM-based standard roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Custom role assignment for IAM-based standard roles
```

|                         | A specific group                                                    | `orn:${partition}:directory:${yourOrgId}:groups:${groupId}`                           | [`https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/groups/${groupId}`](/docs/reference/api/groups/#get-group)                                                           |
|                         | All users within a specific group                                   | `orn:${partition}:directory:${yourOrgId}:groups:${groupId}:contained_resources`       | [`https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/groups/${groupId}/users`](/docs/reference/api/groups/#list-group-members)                                            |
|                         | All devices     <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />                                                     | `orn:${partition}:directory:${yourOrgId}:devices`                                     | [`https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/devices`](/docs/reference/api/devices)                                            |

> | Identity Provider       | All Apps                                                            | `orn:${partition}:idp:${yourOrgId}:apps`                                              | [`https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/apps`](/docs/reference/api/apps/#list-applications)                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Identity Provider       | All apps                                                            | `orn:${partition}:idp:${yourOrgId}:apps`                                              | [`https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/apps`](/docs/reference/api/apps/#list-applications)                                                                  |
```

> |                         | All Apps of a specific type                                         | `orn:${partition}:idp:${yourOrgId}:apps:${appType}`                                   | [`https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/apps/?filter=name+eq+\"${targetAppType}\"`](/docs/reference/api/apps/#list-apps-by-name)                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                         | All apps of a specific type                                         | `orn:${partition}:idp:${yourOrgId}:apps:${appType}`                                   | [`https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/apps/?filter=name+eq+\"${targetAppType}\"`](/docs/reference/api/apps/#list-apps-by-name)                             |
```

| Workflows               | All delegated flows                                                 | `orn:${partition}:workflow:${yourOrgId}:flows`                                        |                                                                                                                                                         |
|                         | A specific delegated flow                                           | `orn:${partition}:workflow:${yourOrgId}:flows:${flowId}`                              |                                                                                                                                                         |
| Governance              | All access certifications         <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | `orn:$partition$:governance:$orgId$:certifications`                                   |                                                                                                                                                         |

> |                         | All Access Requests               <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | `orn:$partition$:governance:$orgId$:requests`                                         |                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                         | All access requests               <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />  | `orn:$partition$:governance:$orgId$:requests`                                         |                                                                                                                                                         |
```

> **Note:** If you use a role with permissions that don't apply to the resources in the resource set, it doesn't affect the admin role. For example, the `okta.users.userprofile.manage` permission gives the admin no privileges if it’s granted to a resource set that only includes `https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/groups/${targetGroupId}` resources. If you want the admin to be able to manage the users within the group, the resource set must include the corresponding `https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/groups/${targetGroupId}/users` resource.

> **Note:** Governance resources are currently only supported as part of the [Standard Resource Sets](#standard-resource-sets). You can't use these to create or update other resource sets.

#### Binding member identifiers

> To specify binding Members, use the REST URL of the corresponding Okta API:

Reviewer: No idea what a member is. Feel free to disregard my edit if it's indeed Members!

| `okta.users.appAssignment.manage`                           | Allows the admin to manage a user's app assignment (also need `okta.apps.assignment.manage` to assign to a specific app)                             | All users, all users within a specific group |
| `okta.groups.manage`                                        | Allows the admin to fully manage groups in your Okta organization                                                                                    | All groups, a specific group                 |
| `okta.groups.create`                                        | Allows the admin to create groups                                                                                                                    | All groups                                   |
| `okta.groups.members.manage`                                | Allows the admin to only manage member operations in a group in your Okta org                                                                        | All groups, a specific group                 |

> | `okta.groups.read`                                          | Allows the admin to only read information about groups and their members in your Okta organization                                                   | All groups, a specific group                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `okta.groups.read`                                          | Allows the admin to only read information about groups and their members in your Okta org                                                   | All groups, a specific group                 |
```

| `okta.groups.appAssignment.manage`                          | Allows the admin to manage a group's app assignment (also need `okta.apps.assignment.manage` to assign to a specific app)                            | All groups, a specific group                 |
| `okta.apps.read`                                            | Allows the admin to only read information about apps and their members in your Okta organization                                                     | All Apps, all apps of a specific type, a specific App |

> | `okta.apps.manage`                                          | Allows the admin to fully manage apps and their members in your Okta organization                                                                    | All Apps, all apps of a specific type, a specific App |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `okta.apps.manage`                                          | Allows the admin to fully manage apps and their members in your Okta org                                                                    | All apps, all apps of a specific type, a specific app |
```

| `okta.apps.assignment.manage`                               | Allows the admin to only manage assignment operations of an app in your Okta org                                                                     | All Apps, all apps of a specific type, a specific App |

> | `okta.profilesources.import.run`                            | Allows the admin to run imports for apps with a profile source, such as HRaaS and AD/LDAP apps. Admins with this permission can create users through the import. | All Apps, all apps of a specific type, a specific App |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `okta.profilesources.import.run`                            | Allows the admin to run imports for apps with a profile source, such as HRaaS and AD/LDAP apps. Admins with this permission can create users through the import. | All apps, all apps of a specific type, a specific app |
```

| `okta.devices.lifecycle.suspend` <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />                             | Allows the admin to suspend device access to Okta                                      | All devices
| `okta.devices.lifecycle.unsuspend` <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />                           | Allows the admin to unsuspend and restore device access to Okta                                                                                                      | All devices
| `okta.devices.lifecycle.delete` <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />                              | Allows the admin to permanently delete devices                                                                                                 | All devices
| `okta.devices.read` <br><ApiLifecycle access="ea" />                              | Allows the admin to read device details                                                                                                 | All devices |

> | `okta.iam.read` | Allows the admin to view roles, resources, and admin assignments                                                                  | All Identity and Access Management resources |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `okta.iam.read` | Allows the admin to view roles, resources, and admin assignments                                                                  | All Identity and access management resources |
```
